and so I think now is actually a really
important time for learning how to
communicate because unless you learn how
to communicate things your relationships
are going to be strained right so let's
start by sort of asking why does like
extended periods of time with certain
people lead to like a straining of your
relationship whether they be parents or
loved ones spouses you know we
quote/unquote need space so if we think
about it like why do we need space it's
because there's some kind of build up
that is happening in the relationship
where we use coping mechanisms like
getting space from someone that causes
that build-up to kind of decompress
right so over time something builds up
between people so question is like what
is that and chances are usually it's
like some degree of emotion so our goal
in the communication topic today is
first of all to learn how to effectively
listen and second learn how to
effectively speak and what what I mean
by this is let other people know what's
inside right and if we think about this
this has two parts one is for you to
know what's inside because unless you
understand what's going on in you how
are you going to effectively communicate
that to someone else and second is for
you to convey it how do I say this
convey
it it being what's inside in a
non-judgmental way so like if someone is
bothering you one of the most effective
like communication skills is to let them
know how they're bothering you without
you causing defensiveness right like
instead of saying hey you're really
annoying you want to be specific about
in what way they're annoying and this is
why I like emotions sort of has to come
before communication because a lot of
like effective listening and effective
speaking is knowing you yourself what
you're feeling so let's start as we
usually do by understanding how does
communication normally work okay so what
I mean by this is generally speaking the
way that communication works is some
person a speaks and then person B speaks
and then person a speaks again and
person B speaks again and person a
speaks and person B speaks and so like a
lot of times what's happening is like
communication is actually waiting for
the other person to shut up
so you can say what's on your mind this
is how communication usually works and
if we think about like like so let's
just use an example of like people with
differing political opinions okay so
let's say that this is their sort of
internal emotional state for lack of a
better term so person a says you know
some kind of political statement right
and person B doesn't like really listen
to that statement like as soon as they
as soon as person a is here person B
starts to formulate their response
right and what they respond to is this
and then when person B is here person a
stops listening and doesn't really try
to understand but then like goes over
here and there's all kinds of stuff like
straw Manning and different kinds of
like political tactics that are used but
generally speaking these people aren't
really communicating they're sort of
monologuing at each other and if we look
at what happens emotionally with this so
like with the first statement this
person gets a little bit pissed right
and then this person when they hear that
gets a little bit pissed and then they
get a little bit more incensed and then
over here we get even more incensed and
then this over here becomes more
incensed and then over time like the
amount of listening that's happening
becomes less and less and less and
that's as the emotions build up here
[Music]
right like this becomes this is just
worthless this is not actually
communication it's just like yelling at
each other and then you get into like
Twitter Wars where you know everyone
thinks that they're right and everyone
thinks that everyone else is wrong and
no one's really communicating to each
other with each other and this is part
of the reason that that political
communication is like so difficult to
like it's it's so hard to convince
people politically because this is kind
of dynamic because you're not actually
communicating with anyone you're just
talking at them and they're talking at
you so how do we change this so way that
we change this is by trying to create
this situation someone else says
something so we're like how do we change
this improve communication so person a
says this and what person B needs to do
is actually say the same thing and then
person a will say something else and
person B needs to actually say the same
thing in person a says something else
and then person B says the same thing
and so then you may ask a question when
do I get to share my opinion
and the short answer is you don't write
you don't get to share your opinion but
you're saying but but what about my
opinion don't I get to speak to the
short answer is no because what we're
gonna teach you first is how to
effectively listen and when you're
trying to effectively listen you're not
going to try to convey your opinion so
that's the first thing that I want you
guys to abandon if you learned this one
a simple principle then your
communication is gonna be doubly
improved don't worry you'll get your
chance later but listening does not
involve sharing your opinion like sort
of duh but that's not the way that we
think we're like a conversation is
between two people right it's like me
talking and then them talking and then
like us talking together actually if you
want to effectively communicate you
don't want to have a conversation
effective communication involves one
person speaking and then the other
person reflecting okay so how does this
practically happen so there are two
techniques we're going to talk about
today one is reflective listening okay
and the second is validation and what we
want to avoid is our opinion we want to
and then we avoid our opinion and
problem-solving okay these are this is
what we want to avoid and this is what
we want to do so what is an example of
reflective listening let's say someone
comes to you and says hey I feel super
lonely now your response may be like I
feel super lonely to actually we don't
want to sympathize either I know it
sounds bizarre so let's think about how
we respond so person number one
says I'm feeling lonely in person
numbers to 2's responses what first of
all like if we want to be good listeners
we're gonna sympathize so we're saying
I'm feeling lonely too
or not even - I'm feeling so much more
loneliness or yeah sure let's stick with
you okay so sometimes this leads to one
upmanship okay the second thing that
they can say is why don't you dot dot
dot
they problem solve right this is problem
solving and then the third thing is I
think you should data thought this is
sharing your opinion all of these are
bad so instead what you want to do is
say this where how that sucks
and then what we're gonna do is followed
by so these two things are followed by
an inquiry okay can you tell me more
and then this person what does person
say so this is this person is here and
then this that's your statement to be
here okay then then they say I have
nothing to do okay
so then instead of saying okay so we can
go this way oh why don't you download
this game I think you should do this oh
you've got nothing to do wait
you hear how little I have to do that's
bad
instead what you say is it sounds hard
to have nothing to do let's let's do
this do you feel that way right and yeah
absolutely talking like an NPC is
absolutely right and so if you think
about this this sounds like super super
bizarre but if you guys actually listen
to like my twitch streams this is
basically what I do for an hour and a
half right and people like oh dr. K is
like such a good communicator yeah it's
because like I don't share my opinion I
just kind of reflect back what they say
so they're saying this and you say this
so validation so reflective listening is
actually just repeating back their words
because sometimes what will happen is
they'll actually you'll reflect
something back and they'll actually
disagree with you and so what what
generally happens over the course of
conversation is you start here or they
start here and you start here and then
as you guys talk past each other they
start going this way and you start going
this way and then you guys are like
really far apart so with reflective
listening is they say this and then you
reflect back and then you start to hear
this way but they're saying no actually
like and that's not true I don't feel so
lonely and then you follow them and then
they go this way and then you're like oh
I thought you were there but no let's go
back over here and then eventually
sometimes what you can do is you can say
hey by the way I think you should
consider this and then if this is the
dynamic of communication that you've
been doing they sort of naturally will
start to follow you you see that like if
you guys have kind of like tied
yourselves together all of these points
then when you suggest something they're
more likely to follow you because you've
been following that because human beings
have this
very simple idea of like mirroring what
they do to you if I walk up to someone I
tell them hey man you suck the other
person is gonna be like yeah man you
suck too but if I say hey man you're
awesome what are they gonna do are they
going to say hey man you suck no if you
tell them they're awesome they're gonna
tell you you're awesome and so if you
listen to them and reflect to them and
you make them feel heard they're more
likely to listen to you and this is
where like like I don't know if you guys
I remember reading about you know this
this guy who is african-american who
like convinced KKK people that like the
KKK was dumb and the way that he did it
was not by like yelling at them and
being like hey KKK people you guys are
idiots what he did is he like went and
befriended them and then like when you
take a racist person and like they
befriend someone of like you know the
race that their discriminatory against
they're like well actually like this is
kind of silly like why I mean this
dude's pretty cool like maybe all black
people aren't bad and and that's because
they use this technique not this is the
technique of political argument and all
that happens at the end of this is
everyone thinks that everyone else is an
idiot and no one changes minds when you
use this technique it actually changes
profoundly like how people kind of see
you and and how they they see themselves
and that you guys can actually
communicate okay okay so this is how we
essentially learn to listen better right
and like you can say but I'm not saying
anything and like yeah you're not saying
anything because you're listening like
the goal of phase one is not to say
anything it's just to listen and make
them feel heard and make them feel like
you guys are on the same page because
you are this will also increase your
understanding of their viewpoint because
you're not trying to convince them of
everything so you actually like spend
the time to like learn what they say
right you kind of follow along and then
you're gonna deepen your understanding
of them and here's the thing if you're
if someone is trying to convince you of
something are you more likely to listen
to
they say if you feel like they
understand you or are you more are you
more likely to listen if you feel like
they don't understand you and that's
kind of like it's kind of silly because
like obviously if someone understands
you you're more likely to listen them so
then the question becomes if you want to
be an effective communicator how do you
convince someone that you understand
that right so now we're sort of
transitioning to phase 2 which is
sharing your opinion and sharing your
feelings and if you want to convince
them if you want them to listen they
need to believe you understand them in
their view point not to attack their
viewpoint right so like when you attack
their viewpoint they're like oh this
guy's attacking me I don't want to
listen to him let's put the walls up and
I'm like there's a lot of numerous
studies that show that when you attack
someone's viewpoint like it doesn't
matter how dumb it is or how incorrect
it is they are going to double down and
we'll ignore the more like the more data
you present the more convinced they
become that they are right so presenting
data and an argument with someone that
you disagree with has the opposite
effect is what people think and then
like this is where is is people get
politically divided everyone thinks the
other side is stupid right the
conclusion conclusion is like people
whose support X Y Z are dumb and it
doesn't matter you can present as much
data as you want to it's like it's gonna
be irrelevant it's not gonna change
anyone's mind the first thing that
you've got to do and like if you guys I
mean I like politics because I think
it's a good example of how like people
don't effectively communicate you don't
get anywhere so how do you convince
someone that you understand them because
if you understand them they're more
likely to listen to you so even when I
talked to like gamers who have went and
seen mental health professionals
sometimes what I hear is that like you
know the psychiatrist didn't
understand gaming and so what they say
is I never went back I hear this story a
lot right so if you guys see how like I
never went back is because of this one
leads to the other so they shot off from
anything that the psychiatrist's had to
say so what we need need to do is we
need to start by convincing someone that
you understand them because if you
understand them they're likely to listen
and the way that you do that is by
following this path right where you just
stay with them okay so now I'm going to
ask you guys a question
what is the right answer how do you
reflectively listen to this statement
I'm a complete piece of crap and I have
no value in life okay
option one is know you're amazing you
are awesome I love you or two sounds
like you feel like you're worthless or
three I feel really worthless what's the
what's the right response if we're
reflectively listening
right so so you guys got it right it
sounds like you feel like you're
worthless so this set is really bizarre
because our instinct is that when
someone says oh I'm a worthless piece of
crap our instinct is to try to support
them and boost them up but that's
actually so I want you guys to think
about this for a second right when I say
I'm worthless that's me going this way
and when you say you're awesome which
where you go in you're going this way
completely opposite directions right so
then they're gonna think like like it
and think about this like when you feel
like a piece of crap and someone tries
to reassure you at the beginning so
eventually you can kind of get there so
we're gonna kind of table that for a
second but when someone says like yeah
man I'm really ugly and then someone
says like when your parents tell you no
you're beautiful
like how seriously do you take that
you're like screw you like you don't
understand me at all and then like what
do you do afterward even though they're
trying to be supportive what do you do
afterward you ignore everything else
they have to say because you're like
this person doesn't get it
like they don't get it so you start by
staying with them right you start by
doing this and it feels kind of weird so
then let's get to phase 2 okay so after
you do this for a while so let's say
like you give this like 10 or 15 minutes
someone's asking you how long do you
that I mean something I'd say somewhere
between 5 and 15 minutes then we get to
phase 2 which is learn how to
effectively speak okay so how to
effectively speak so there are two
components here one is understanding
yourself and what do I mean by this like
if someone at home is irritating you or
your friends are irritating you you have
to understand like why they're
irritating you if you have done
like what's irritating so we had a
couple of days ago oh I think we had
someone on stream he was talking about I
think it was the set the the dude who
had the major setback the PhD student
and he was kind of saying that like when
he was unemployed his parents once every
two weeks would call him and ask him
how's the job search going and that
would piss him off right I know I
certainly felt the same way because when
I was unemployed and looking for a job
like the worst thing to do was when your
parents ask you for an update and you
had no update to give and like I
remember just thinking like I'll give
you an update when I have something
decent to say but out of time they asked
that question I felt like all of this
avoidance that I was playing so many
video games to ignore the fact that I
don't have a job and here they come
along and they ask me if I have a job
and then I can't ignore it that I can't
ignore it anymore stop letting me stop
making me look at it I don't want to
look at it right like I'm trying to
ignore it and here you come trying to be
a concerned parent
screw you so the first thing is you have
to understand yourself so you can't if
you go to your parents and you say I
want you to stop asking me if I found a
job yet and and then like they're
they're not going to understand right so
you have to understand yourself so this
is where like you have to figure out
okay if you find something frustrating
and this is gonna happen when you guys
are stuck with other people at home
frustration you start with frustration
right that's the first thing you're
gonna feel and then you have to ask
yourself where does that come from and
[Music]
then you're gonna come up with an answer
right like because I haven't found a job
yet and then you ask yourself why does
that bother you
[Music]
and then you kind of like play some of
this game where you try to track back
like what's the actual emotion that you
feel and then you come back to your
parents and you say you start by holding
their viewpoints so when you speak this
is the first thing start with their
viewpoint okay
the other way that you can do this if
you guys are having this kind of
conversation here
the other way to do this is to summarize
what they said so you stop right here
and then you summarize this is also
holding their viewpoint okay
or summarize what they've said so you
can say something like you know with
your parents like let's say that so
let's use this job example right so your
parents tell you I think they asked you
have you found a job yet or how's the
job search going and then you you say
can you please stop asking about me that
question it's frustrating and then they
say but we're just concerned about you
like we just want to make sure you're
doing okay and we want to try to help
you and that's like that's them going
this way and you're like yeah I don't
want your help I don't need your help
I'm fine and they're like yeah but we
love you and like we're just a little
bit worried and then you're like no I'm
fine everything's okay so you guys are
getting further further along so the way
that you start is by actually looping
back around and going here right and
then what you do is you say I know y'all
are concerned are concerned and that you
love me period
I feel like so then then what you would
you say something like this I feel
ashamed
every time you ask that question because
I haven't made any progress then you can
kind of go on to say you know you guys
asking I'm not saying I know that you
guys want to ask and that you guys are
concerned and you have every right to
ask okay come on
can you go to mama Thank You lovey so
like when you say like hey every time
you ask me about my job I know you guys
are concerned that I'm doing okay and I
know that you all want to help but I
know it's bizarre but it actually has
the opposite effect of helping what it
what it does is it actually makes me
feel more ashamed and it highlights in
my mind that like I haven't made any
progress and it makes me feel incapable
so I was hoping that instead of asking
me like every couple of weeks like maybe
I could let you guys know when I have an
update for you does that kind of make
sense like does that sound and they're
like when you sit when you do that and
when you kind of tell them every time
you ask it's sort of it doesn't actually
help it actually kind of bizarrely it
has the opposite effect and I'm trying
to figure out and then then the so you
kind of say your piece and then the
third thing so remember step one is
summarizing okay then step two is say
your piece in step three is ask them
what
they think now this is the crucial part
because they've said this you've said
this they've said this you've said this
they've said this and then you switch
things up you go over here and now this
is really really critical because this
is their opportunity to do one of two
things right either they go he etre or
they go here and now the tricky thing is
that if they go here then what you need
to do is actually go back here and then
they're gonna go here and then you're
gonna go here and then they're gonna go
here and then you're gonna go here so
you're kind of back to square one and
then you try it again right so then
they're over here and then you go here
and then you check in with them you
listen again and then they're gonna go
here and you're like okay so then you're
gonna listen to them for a little while
right they go here you go here and then
you're like all right let's third time's
a charm so you go here and then what
happens is something magical is gonna
happen they're gonna go here and then
once they do that then you move here and
then they go here and then you go here
and then they go here that's right
that's it right so then you can move
them further along it's getting confused
okay sorry okay so what I mean by that
is like so so you listen to what they
say and you summarize what they say and
then you share your opinion and then
you've got to check in with them and see
if they understand what you said because
if they just continue thinking their way
then you have to stop and you have to
like listen to what they say and then
like try again but if they don't
understand if they're not able to
reflect back you can't keep moving
forward okay
so draw the maps
maybe we'll try that okay so let's say
that you know they're over here and
you're listening to them and then you
try to go over here and one of two
things is going to happen either they
will go this way or they'll continue
going this way and if they go this way
if they go this way then you can keep
going and you can keep leaving them
right that's scenario number one but
scenario number two is they're talking
over here so then like you can't keep
going this way you have to have deviate
and go back this way and then you're
like alright let's try this again I
don't think you guys get it when you ask
me questions you think it's helping but
it's actually hurting and they're like
no but we love you so much like we just
want to help and then they're like yeah
I don't think you guys get it I know
that you feel that it's helping and I
know that you're trying to help but what
I'm telling you is that it's having the
opposite effect and then eventually
they're gonna be like oh you're saying
it's having the opposite effect and then
you're like yes yes that is exactly
correct and they're like oh no but like
we love you and then you're like no
come back this way and they're like okay
this is what communicate effective
communication actually looks like okay
it's it's a laborious process at first
but this is just because this is not how
we're trained to speak like once you get
good at this you can do it all the time
it becomes easy okay so let me just
think about this okay
so let's go back to this okay so first
thing that we've talked about is learn
how to effectively listen so what that
means is reflecting a reflective
listening and validation and then learn
how to effectively speak so the first
thing is you've got to understand what
is frustrating for you like I'll give
you guys another example like so let's
say that someone says a joke that's
offensive to you and then you say like
hey man I don't think that's very funny
and then what's their response their
responses oh what's the matter can't you
take a joke
and they're gonna keep saying that and
they're gonna think that you're an idiot
who can't take a joke until you
appropriately vocalize what is offensive
about that joke to you and that is that
starts with a summary right so that
starts with a I understand that you
think this is just funny because dead
babies are like a funny thing to you and
I sort of get how like if you actually
haven't dealt with a dead baby like you
would think that that's funny because
it's sort of crass and it like it's sort
of like triggers something but I
actually work in a neonatal ICU where I
try to save babies lives and sometimes
they die and every time they die it kind
of like it's hard on me because then I
have to go and tell their parents that
the baby is dead and that's certainly
not funny and so when you talk about
dead babies like my experience is just
so different from yours that like that's
something that I struggle with every
every day right and like when you
explain something like that and like
let's say you're in a break room right
because this is where a lot of these
like offensive jokes kind of happen and
people like oh that's just so funny like
you just don't get it
right like oh like you can't take a joke
and it's like no man like I want you to
understand where I'm coming from and
then you can ask them does that make
sense to you so this is where even with
the dead baby joke right so they're
starting here okay so this is dead
babies her her right and then you're
like oh I kind of get you so this is the
first thing so your instinct is to go
this way but you can't go that way what
you want to do because you want to go
like this you know like yeah I sort of
get that like you know it's sort of
crass and it's kind of like emotionally
alarming but here is what my experience
is and then you have to ask them right
here sorry you have to ask them right
here do you get does so this is the big
problems we usually don't say that we
just assume we're right right
does that
make sense to you so anytime you share
your opinion you have to ask people to
you so like can you actually get here or
do you end up over here and if they say
yeah it makes sense to me or if they say
like no I don't quite understand then at
least you're evoking that sentiment from
them like you're revoking that there's a
difference and if you think about it
like if someone says yes that makes
sense to me then either they're gonna
shut the hell up because then it doesn't
like it doesn't make sense for them to
say yeah I that makes sense to me and
then for them to continue making jokes
or they're gonna say like no it doesn't
make sense to me and then you guys can
at least agree that you're not on the
same place and then you can say can I
try to explain it again that's your next
question right so then you're like okay
I'm with you it is it okay if we go this
way is that okay and then they're gonna
either say like something like oh it's
really not that big of a deal and they
may make some kind of like other sort of
like wigglies statement where they try
to change the subject and then you can
kind of point that out to them so you
can say I I hear you saying that it's
not a big deal so once again we're gonna
reflect okay I hear you saying that it's
not a big deal
but I don't think you're hearing me
because my whole point that I'm trying
to explain to you is that it actually is
a big deal to me are you understanding
that this is actually important to me
and then usually at that point they just
tuck their tails between their legs and
they run away because you've dominated
them and and so someone is asking what
if they're right so this is not so I
want you guys to understand this for a
second which of these sides is right
right like is this right or is this
right
there's no rightness or wrongness
there's no rightness or wrongness here
like this is where there's no sense of
right or wrong this is about being on
the same page or not being on the same
page okay
it's about like communication is not
about right or wrong you got like your
girl got to understand this very
important okay this has nothing to do
with right and wrong and if you think
that this has to do with right and wrong
you're missing the entire point the
whole point of the communication
exercise is to go from here to here the
point of the communication exercise and
learning how to communicate is so that
this doesn't happen
we're not presuming any kind of
rightness or wrongness so someone's
asking how would you respond if they if
they say they don't care so then you can
say like I mean I would reflect that
back to them right so that like that's
gonna make them sound like an so
you can say so so it sounds like you
basically don't have any sense of caring
about what I think or feel and that like
generally speaking the opinions of some
people or their experience of life is
completely irrelevant to you right you
just reflect back if they say I don't
care man if you want to get bent out of
shape you can get bent out of shape and
then you can say yeah so it sounds like
you really don't care if you go around
like upsetting other people or like
impacting their lives in a negative way
and then they say yeah man I don't care
and then like who's the at the
end of that right so like I think once
again it's its reflection summary
inquiry so this is our this is our
summary okay and we'll go to questions
so I'm gonna cue people up for questions
while we're summarizing so we're gonna
do Luca the loped shawl and tadeas
and here's our summary so step one is
reflection step two is inquiry actually
let's say summary so you guys get that
you have to reflect a lot okay so maybe
actually step step two is reflection
step three is reflection right and at
this point they feel you understand then
what happens is summary so you summarize
their point you don't try to pick it
apart you don't disagree with them
remember like if you're trying to
convince them from the get-go this is
gonna fall apart the goal here is not to
dominate them or convince them or poke
holes in their argument
their goal is genuinely to understand
because if you're actually going over
here but you're pretending to go over
here that's not going to work you
actually need to be with them and try to
put yourself in their shoes and if you
do this well then they are really
confident you understand them and now
they're primed they're right then what
you do is inquire are you willing to go
this way with me and then if they say
yes then you make your point or share
your perspective is maybe a better way
to put it and then either they're gonna
go this way
or they're gonna go this way and then
you have to either either things or
check you're done and then you can even
ask them a question like ask them to
summarize right because then if they
summarize well then you were really
confident that they understand you and
then you guys are on the same page and
the way you ask them to summarize is can
you tell me what you heard like can you
tell me what you understood for and what
I said like what did you understand like
what did you catch about what I said and
so then when you ask them to summarize
let's say you're going like so they're
they're going this way and soon you're
like okay and let's go this way they're
like sure let's let's go that way so
they go this way and then they they like
get halfway there and they start going
over here and then you're like a real
word hold on
this is what I was kind of saying can
you follow me and then you ask them to
summarize again and they're like oh yeah
so you said this this and this but then
I thought you were saying this and then
you're like no no man this is what you
heard this is what you heard me say but
what I'm really saying is this and
they're like okay now I got right so
each of these points is kind of like the
summary happens kind of over here and
then if you guys deviate at some point
you got to come back to this and is it a
laborious process absolutely but I want
you guys to think about this for a
second how laborious like a political
conversation where you disagree with
someone is just as laborious it just
feels better and you feel more righteous
and it accomplishes less but you can
spend just as much effort doing
communicating the other way and you're
just not going to get anywhere like it
doesn't it doesn't really matter so I
think this is way better so hopefully
that's helpful okay let's do questions I
[Music]
tried to or people not Luka I've got
time for maybe two questions okay Judith
Dennis and Salvatore